The Parker Solar Probe's discovery that magnetic switchbacks and velocity spikes in the young solar wind are abundant has prompted intensive research into their origin(s) and formation mechanism(s) in the solar atmosphere. Recent studies, based on in-situ measurements and numerical simulations, argue that velocity spikes are produced through interchange magnetic reconnection. Our work studies the relationship between interplanetary velocity spikes and coronal brightenings induced by changes in the photospheric magnetic field. Our analysis focuses on the characteristic periodicities of velocity spikes detected by the Proton-Alpha Sensor (PAS) on the Solar Orbiter during its fifth perihelion. Throughout the time period analyzed here, we estimate their origin along the boundary of a coronal hole. Around the boundary region, we identify periodic variations in coronal brightening activity observed by the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) onboard the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). The spectral characteristics of the time series of in-situ velocity spikes, remote coronal brightenings, and remote photospheric magnetic flux exhibit correspondence in their periodicities. Therefore, we suggest that the localized emergence of small-scale magnetic flux within coronal holes fuels interchange reconnection—a process that can be observed as slight brightness augmentations and outward fluctuations or jets. These dynamic elements may act as mediators, bonding interchange reconnection with the genesis of velocity spikes and magnetic switchbacks.
